---
title: 'Argenomic: Illuminating Chemical Space'
date: 2020-07-05
permalink: /posts/2020/07/argenomic/
tags:
  - Evolutionary Algorithms
  - Computational Drug Design
  - Software Package
---

Chemists search through the space of molecules to discover new drugs, often aided by search algorithms, which automatically explore a search space to
find high-performing solutions. With argenomic we provide an novel algorithm that produces a large diversity of high-performing, yet qualitatively different molecules, illuminates the distribution of optimal solutions, and improves search efficiency compared to both machine learning and genetic algorithm approaches.

Let's get started
------


Standing on the shoulders of giants
------
As in all creative endeavors, the ideas behind argenomic were not born in a vaccuum. The projected was kickstarted by discovering the multi-dimensional archive of phenotypic elites (MAP-Elites) as devised by Jean-Baptiste Mouret and Jeff Clune. MAP-Elites is a simple, efficacious and surprisingly powerful tool developed in the context of soft robot design, which solves stagnation issues in genetic algorithms by mimicing biological evolutionary diversity. In MAP-Elites, candidate solutions are generated by a genetic algorithm but are assigned to a niche -- in which only the single fittest candidate survives -- depending on user-defined characterising features. 

Armed with MAP-Elites we set out to build a argenomic, and settled on graph-based genetic algorithms as our underlying molecular optimisation tool.In a graph-based genetic algorithm, candiate molecules are represented by their molecular graph and *mutations* and *crossovers* are implemented as actions on the graph. Thanks to Jan H. Jensen a fully open-source implementation of graph-based genetic algorithm was available. For our implmentation, we inherented his list of mutations and crossovers, and extended it with positional analogue scanning and other enhancements. 
